I'm not good at raising money, but maybe I'm OK at raising consciousness, and when consciousness is raised, money will follow.
Today, I want to introduce you to one of the greatest people I've ever met. I met him in Udaipur in India. And he is one of the founders of an organization who are helping animals. And they started when nobody really cared about animals in India. Basically, they just started a complete movement almost. And if you if you see in the streets now, people really care about street animals in this city. And I was really touched by the way the animal shelter was created because there is so much love, so much compassion. And I really wanted to learn more about it and really wanted to ask him how how they created it. The way it is right now. And just to get some facts across. Animal Aid Unlimited, in Udaipur. Has now, over 700 residents, animals who are living there, some temporary, some permanently, and has almost 100 staff members now who are basically coming from the surrounding area. And of course, they have so many volunteers. And we have been one of them who are helping these animals and, you know, learning a lot about how to treat animals and how to be a kinder person. And if you Google Animal Aid Unlimited, you will realize how many followers this organization has now on YouTube and all the other channels. And because they documented their their work and it's just absolutely amazing. So without further ado, meet Jim.
Jim, thank you so much that we we actually managed to to sit down and talk a little bit because I'm so, so curious about you and yeah, about your life as well, because when I when I first entered the gates of animal aid, I felt that this is a very special place because I've felt so much openness, so much peacefulness. And I didn't knew how much pain actually exists here, because on the tour we got introduced to some of the animals and they have so much suffering sometimes and so much pain. And it's even more incredible that this peacefulness is still present. And yeah, you as one of the founders. You know what it's really incredible for me is how you created this peace and this love and this compassion within yourself to be able to create such a place.
Well, thank you for that nice opening and your sense of coming to animal aid in that way and gives a nice feedback to me and to us about the people that connect with what we're doing and what they see, because I just sort of do it and sometimes I'm not even aware of what the consequences are of doing it. And in some ways, that's maybe even at the very heart of what you're saying is that. If somebody ends up doing what they kind of care about, they might be playing to their vanity, might be playing really to other audiences, like I want to be seen doing some things like we're all raised with comic books about Superman's and super women and, you know, and being being something in the eyes like successful, being someone who really has fancy shoes and a cool car and a great girlfriend or boyfriend. And if we're not really invested in that, there's a lot of vanity that's in human beings and pride as opposed to the person who really cares about something.
And then they the other people see them. And but and they, too, know I'm inspired by that person because that person isn't playing to me. I'm not in a hustle. I'm not someone's not trying to sell me a used car. They're doing their work. And I'm watching and I'm seeing the environment.
And and I'm drawn into it because so often and all the emails and all the communications, all of the effort on the part of the world to sell me something, we're relieved if we get to a place where we're presented to something. And probably why animals? In some ways, it could have been a number of things that would have been something for me personally. And I knew something in me probably when I was just a young person. And it was very, you know, in the 60s and or in the 50s and in America, in Los Angeles, going to high school.
I was had a very normal sort of life. I was a good student and in a standard sense of it. I was a general athlete and got, you know, pats on the back for football, baseball, basketball kinds of things. I went to UCLA for the freshman year on to play football and left for complicated reasons and went abroad. But I also had a mother who introduced me to literature and I didn't even know it was normal, not normal. But like I found myself like reading almost all of Dostoevsky's novels, walking through the halls of high school and didn't even know that that was great literature or that it just was interesting and fascinating. And I was introduced to the incredible world of that particular author. That was a. A world ultimately about the HUME, the challenges of the human spirit. And when you get into that world, you become more attracted to probably the arts. I ended up getting long story about getting there, but the p_h_d_ in British literature and taught in three American universities and didn't really get into it because I wanted to be a teacher.
Though I loved the time of teaching, I thought it was a credible moment to enter into a classroom of people and be able to present them with poems and stories that were at the core of things in life and have them have everyone try to respond to them and find out what's really on our minds and what what we're feeling. So the bandwidth being the environment of the the issues that were relevant in the 60s.
I've found that almost all of the very nice conservative things that were in my conservative Republican family. I started in my own spiritual journey at that time, was flipping almost everything, whether it was politics, sexuality, race, culture, entertainment, the arts, for a while it was I was almost a knee jerk reaction. If my family and uncles and aunts and the world was doing this, then I should do the exact opposite.
And turns out they did a lot of things right, too. And and so, you know, you have to. In growing up, you have to sort out some of the things that. That are really a blessing if you're lucky enough to get from your parents and other things you say.
Thanks for trying, folks, but I'm gonna go a different way. So I.
I entered in to the sense of it, to put it in a fundamental way. I became impressed with just the simple fact that most religions take up, that you're kind of lucky to if you have any gifts. You know, if you have two eyes, that is a blessing. And you don't even learn that that's a blessing until you have met people that have no eyes. Then you say, Oh, I get it.
What would it be like to have no eyes? What it would be like if you were deaf. What it would be like if you were black and you're white. What if you were black and poor? What if you were black and poor and gay?
How isolating. How, how, how far away you'd be from the center of the culture. And could you live that way? What if you felt you were being hunted down? In that world that you are in because you with a stranger in that world, so literature. Allowed me to have thousands of experiences that I didn't have to suffer through. I could read through them. I didn't have to die and be tortured in the Russian Revolution. I could read Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky and Chekhov. I didn't have to suffer through the English world of what happened in the Thirty Years War. I could read the great poets and writers and the novelists from Shakespeare to Milton to Chaucer, and I could read into anti-Semitism in the Dreyfus case and Proust and understand what it means to be a marginalised person.
When I was healthy, smart enough and athletic enough, and white and healthy, I was. This was my planet. In terms of being a young man in California, this was my world and it caught me in the right time. To say something like a feeling of enjoy it.
A great deal of a world, and the more I looked into it and went and traveled and went to India and went to to Israel and lived on a kibbutz for a while and was in Greece and and was meditating in the world, I saw how much what. What great fortune of health and country. And that no one had had a war in my city. No one. I wasn't ducking under cover. You know, when bombs were coming or. And so when when I saw America going off into wars and into the world, that.
Two million plus Vietnamese were killed.
Against Geneva Convention that they did, that it was it that was not allowed at that time and agreed on by America that you cannot use families and elderly and citizens as part of a terrorism. And we were going out in the name of this kind of peace. And I started to see that in some ways, some other people in the world didn't see us as freedom fighters that we thought we were.
They saw us as terrorists coming in to South America, destabilizing democracies to get because we wanted to put in a conservative person that would give economic advantage to Americans entrepreneurship to get money. And and so I didn't become deeply anti-American, but I brought it down. I started in my history, taught me that. That we absolutely gave and took everything we possibly could from the American Indian. And we had committed a genocide on these people and took their land and their opportunity. And that gave us strength. We 30 million black people were taken out of Africa.
That gave England and Spain and America and France an opportunity to get economic advantage next to the rest of the world on the backs of innocent people. And while I was going along, being kind of an average Christian, it caused me just to think that the Jesus Christ that that I read that said, you know, give all your cares away and come follow me, that I didn't know anybody who was wanted to give up anything to follow a spiritual adventure.
Not one credit card to give up, to go follow the dangerous life sometime, but the spiritual life that challenges 1 to 2. To think that looking after yourself should be a dental school to looking after others and there is no getting better on your little pillow. If those around you are suffering. So with that attitude. I ended up teaching at a university where I taught James Baldwin's and other country. I was told not to teach it because it had gay and white and black relations and that I would be trouble. But because of freedom of speech, they couldn't stop it, but they could fire me. And they, you know, as per other reasons and vent other reasons. So after three years in a small family, they I did teach the book. And was removed from the university.
There was a sit down strike and I left with some of the people who understood that I was unfairly treated. And we went to Santa Fe, New Mexico, and started a commune and glory out in Mexico. That was the idea of having a new educational approach to the world that would would review and look at at at how we're raised. And we shouldn't be raised in universities. And our curriculum is set up by four General Motors and others to be ready to do what they need. Yes, we need work and that's good to be attentive to that. But not. But the point of a great university should be, as Aristotle told us all so long ago, simply it should have no economic advantages at all. It should be a place to be educated, to be a good citizen.
And then after that, you figure out where will I work and who will I marry and what will I do. But you want to be a good citizen, mean just a good human being. Who knows? Who knows yourself, knows your history, knows your culture, knows music and knows the things that are available in the world and to study them and learn them.
But not for any other end product to find out. What are your five senses? Do you have any special talents? Doesn't matter if somebody else is a great writer. Can you write? You might enjoy Van Gogh, but you could paint too. You could play the piano too. Do you even know it?
Did you even get in an educational system that even brought it out to you?
So all of these things.
And because I'm 78 years old now, there'd be many chapters that I could go on and on and about that how I got to this place. But to basically say that as raise as a pisco Palin in California, white and privileged and all of that.
I taught English literature for some some years, English literature, and I was that then when I was not able to teach. I went to a commune that also caused the experiences that that ended my marriage at that time, and the three kids that I had with their mother went to Seattle. And there were no jobs available for teachers in English literature at that time, so I went there to be near them and had a home that I rented.
So where the kids could come and be with me. And because I wanted to be a father more than I wanted to be a teacher of English literature, because I could bring my books with me, but I couldn't bring my kids with me to other places. So that cause the sort of radical change that.
Got me into.
Looking at the world differently with, you know, some years of teaching behind me. Year. So many years. You know, in school. What do I do on the world now without that? And someone approached me actually from the United Jewish Appeal Program that had known me on a trip that I took in Israel.
I'd studied on a kind of a scholarship for nineteen sixty four for a year and at Hebrew University in Jerusalem. And I met some people that said, look, you're you're sort of know as much about Judaism as I do and other people and and. They're looking for fundraisers to help. With charitable needs in Israel, in the 15 states and the United in the northern United States. So I said, I don't know that you do you do you know that I'm not Jewish and said, don't don't worry. If you care about these issues and do it what, we can go with it from there. And so for three years, I was hired to go from Alaska to Montana and Oregon and Seattle to set and organize groups of people in those cities to raise money for Israel and for humanitarian needs in Israel. And then that led to people saying, and I must have done it reasonably well, because the city of Seattle, after three years, said they'd like to hire me to be the director of fundraising for 30000 Jews that lived in Seattle. So I said again, do you know I'm not Jewish and I'm the one that is talking here as I as I present because I don't raise money. I told him when I started, I'm not good at raising money, but maybe I'm OK at raising consciousness. And when consciousness is raised, money will follow. And I'm not interested in raising money, but I will raise the problems of other people in need and get no benefit from that myself. But we'll set up opportunities to have people help people. And so I was and then some of the people that were involved there said there's an opportunity in Seattle. The first 10 million dollar campaign was being run in Seattle to create create some endowments and funds for the University of Washington School of Medicine. So some of the Jewish people that were on the board there that knew me and asked me to consider taking up that role. So I did organize the campaign, lived it sort of in the university for three years, raised the ten million dollars and in the course of this hired a lady that became my wife, Erica, who wrote the language surrounding a million dollar endowment for one of the medical services that were there. And when this program ended. I said I had noticed something in The New York Times of an ad for a position at Mount Scopus College in Melbourne, Australia, and sent it off as a kind of a whim. And they responded again. It was a I didn't even know at the time, but it was a Jewish school, largest Jewish school in the world outside of Israel. Two thousand students, mainly Holocaust survivors with the source of a lot, a lot of it and interviewed with someone and again, had to tell the community in Australia, they flew me to Australia and to say again, folks, I am going to be the presenter of the joke. The needs that you hear and funding an endowment and schools with the principal. And I'm not Jewish. And they said, look, you seem to have a track record. They call people and whatever. So we were there six years and had our our daughter Claire. And toward the end of that time, because I had had such a fabulous trip to India, that first time when I went on to Israel and Grace and I was like 19, 20 years old, that. We convinced her to take a trip to go to see India, and she wasn't that interested in it. She wanted to go to some other countries and beat and why India? And she had never gone to Europe. And there seemed to all sorts of places that seemed like a worthy place to go to. And then after we were there one day, she said, why haven't you told me about this more earlier? Because this is a knockout. This is so interesting and so opening up more than just cultural differences that are typical because of skin and because of language and that that that life is conducted at a different pace than the West. And and how people greet and meet and move with each other and feed and care and tenderness and concern. Ah, ah, ah. Just different. They're not necessarily always better, but just different. So when we finished our time in Melbourne, Australia.
We knew that it would be interesting to come to India and we started travelling, we liked Roger Stone.
Then we found a diaper. And when we were here, it was our daughter was 6, 7 years old. And it was going to be an issue of. Where. What country she was going to be in. And she was a bit of a shy girl, so to be in America or to be in India, she didn't want to. She was losing friends on both sides would start a relationship and leave it. So. And it was just where I was close enough to retirement. That we just said, let's take a try it for a few years, that's come a couple of months a year to India and see if we're really liking this. And as we were here, we were looking in to like, what would we really do here? We both know she was also somebody who had worked on social things and rights issues for 15 years younger than me, but but had that for that next generation was concerned with labor issues and was apart of labor strikes and and wanting to help out in the labor movement and had been along animal lover. So we were neither of us were vegetarians at that time, but when right before we left, I read Peter Singer's book on the Animal Revolution. He was I had actually been a professor at Monash. I mean. Yeah, at Monash University in Melbourne. Before he got his post in Princeton on animal rights and these matters. And I was enough at the brink of it that just kind of I remember standing up from a couch that I was on when I finished the book saying I you know, I guess I'm a vegetarian, you know, and and that was already we had, you know, going to India. And it just it just fit in with with all of that. And but I while I had been involved in the gay women's issues, the anti-Vietnam War, I had kind of kept animal rights in brackets and hadn't really opened it up to look at. I had loved each of the pets that I'd ever have, the dogs and the cats, but had not really opened this all up. And as we arrived here on our trips and we went to I went to the jails, to my idea of exploring a city is to go to the waterworks, go to the jails, go to the place where they dumped the garbage. If you want to learn about a city and you go to the Taj Mahal, but but also go to the electric company and go to the general government hospital and go through the wards and sit in a place and listen to see how things are delivered to people that are out sitting outside with their families waiting to be attended to because they're so poor and have come in 50 kilometres away with a sick person and.
And so that was that was something that as we were looking for what we would do in coming back here, we we we even went out looking for the possibility of a orphanage. But every place that we looked, we were finding injured animals and we were vegetarians at that time, both of us. But we wanted to do something we thought that the Indians needed, not just what what I wanted to impose upon them. And in the course of doing it, we were finding injured animals. In the process of our general and we found there was no place to take them and we learned there was no place to take them in India with except for a few cities. Some of the big cities that had these services. So this was the thing that caused us to say, look, every every.
A lovely cow. By the way, if you're hearing that in the distance, I'm sitting here in this lovely interview. And cows just come up to say hi. That. We saw that every social group from bein deaf or children, battered women. Had people that were dealing with their problems, but no one was dealing with the problems of the injured street animal. So we made a commitment to try. Let's let's think about this and do it.
And that led to saying we can't do this at arm's length. We can't go back and forth and do it. To do this is a huge commitment. And in the famous long Shorey story being made short with a thousand different things happening in between.
We sold our home in America. We took our. Girl, Claire. Out of school.
And maybe you better just for one sec.
So we made the decision to think that we could help animals. We got a home in a village. We forced our way in and got a family to sort of accept us. And we built a couple of rooms in the village. And and this is sort of fundraising and friend raising. You know, that we told them that I would build some rooms for them, that they would have and they didn't have to pay me. But then they could give me sort of ten years that I wouldn't have to pay rent here. So I gave them all of that. And then they ended up helping us get the land in the village, just their own land. But to rent it, it would help their karma, their love of animals and what they were doing and that we could begin a small shelter there. And we were there for four or five years. And it just this was before all of the Googles and all the hand-held phones and that was it. We had we had, you know, personal phone. Only one phone in the village that for emergencies. So. We got actually four or five years to try to do this on our own without a sense of rush. But once the technology came and we had we put posters in hotels and and then people the Internet started and we got the idea of getting. Are telling our stories at a Web site that eventually built into three, four minute videos that surprised us all by not only creating a worldwide popularity. My daughter tells me that there's now over 2 billion views and and we have a number of individual animals that have have 5, 10, 15, 20 million views. And with that have raised the funds to have us develop. And we do we do traditional fundraising that I used to do. I'm just going to people and businesses and and looking for funding and from those kinds of typical sources. But this really put us and not only was it a money raiser, it was a consciousness raiser. And people from all over Europe and America. There's any number of people that have actually come here where they saw not the country, but they saw animal aid and saw something in the workers. And in the sense of volunteers being accepted and the care that made them feel that this was a place that they would like to go. And people started making 10, 15 day trips month long, making multiple trips. Several of our people now have been three and four years with us. People who had completely employable in European, American, Australian jobs, but would rather be in a place that is has welcomed them in to care for animals. And we helped to give some of them who have real job functions, a minimal salary if they're a vet, nurse or something like this.
Otherwise, they'll just come at their own expense. And I think the nature of the people coming who are actually working Crete has created the atmosphere that was mentioned at the beginning of of why does this feel like a nice place?
And it turns out that it's just letting a good thing be available, which is it's because there has been suffering, because they've been hurt, the injured animals. Helping them. Becomes something that people do together. And each of us needs help. And most of the people that stay here long enough find that that whatever little anxieties they've been carrying in the world. However, they thought their bad leg or their headache or their inability to get a boyfriend or girlfriend or get into this school or things that they made is important. They found that being in a place where they were really helping another creature that needs it now in a very immediate way helped them sort out their lives. And good people attract good people. So people would be coming here for a day and then walk, walk away. And in many of these top people told me this later, they just missed something when they went away and they they missed themselves being. In a place where not only like politically, you can talk about animals in caring for them, where you're not seen as strange or weird. You're not defending vegetarianism or veganism or or choosing to help animals. But you're also finding that these other nice people that you're here with. Have found a place for themselves and that you have a chance to find it here yourself. And so some do and some have stayed some. We have a couple of people that for probably once a year for the last 10 years, they've come here and it's just a pilgrimage in their life, too. Instead of taking a regular vacation to Hawaii or or some European visit, it's just the place they come to remind themselves, get squared away with with who they are and and enjoy themselves in the company of like minded souls. And and so all of the to kind of wrap up who I am and I lived on a kibbutz and I worked with all those issues. I and I I left the church, but I didn't. I was a spiritual person. Who know the spiritual in the sense that I think there's more to life than just. You know, eating and feeding and and being a central creature, that's all wonderful and great. But there is more, especially there's more. When many of the people that, you know, in the world are not even getting that. And they're not even available for this spiritual poetical musical vision because they can't even feed their children properly. So all of those things came together. And I like the fact that at the end of my efforts to kind of help people directly, there's no bigger nobody who than the abandoned street animal. No name. No interest in a local population. But it it it gave me and my wife the pleasure of helping the nobodies. And as as just one example of all the nobody's and it could be today people fleeing from Yemen and people fleeing and Africa because there's tribal strife. And it could be, you know, every every country that has their own examples of disadvantage, human beings. So at the end of the day, it's really about working against the bully. That might should not be right. And power should not have sway just because it's powerful. And and so finding a community and a place that is sort of my kibbutz and my church and my my club. But without a name in that sense, without a theology, without orders and rules of who is good and bad, apart from just being kind when you're here to and helpful to the animals that are here. People can come and find their own level and their own measure of what they want personally and and and I am as happy.
I've gotten great news from people who've been here. I've written back, say, a year later and say I couldn't come back, but I'm doing more work in my small town with animals or I will come back. But I heard that and what one person actually wrote. There's real problems in Romania. And you taught me to go. You guys are doing really well there and they have no help there. So I want to go and try to be brave out there and go to Romania and see if I can help where people are like hunting dogs for sport, you know, and that sort of thing. So it it's like I don't know where people are going to go. And fortunately, online and by people visiting here, we have now eighty five or so people. It's not inexpensive. It's about thirty five thousand U.S. dollars a month. We get no government support. And the people who come here, it's all funded by individuals who who thinks that this that they want to have a place like this in their lives. And and we invite them into town to claim it, to say, you can this is yours. You can pay your spiritual rent and whatever currency you want to come and work, give something, give good money, put it in your well, whatever you want to do, and it'll keep this alive for you and for the next generation. And so in broad strokes.
I'm 78.
And I'm working with my daughter, who's 30, and my wife who's 65 and where we're doing what we can to with all the people who come here to help. In the great circle of helping animals to help ourselves know each other better and and. And it probably all starts with everyone getting a hold of rescuing yourself. We're not really ready to go out and rescue the world until we we we think we're living with a good person. That we're the person we're with is funny, the person or with his kind that we talk to the I mean, that has our inner life be valuable or not. And when we get that worked out and I'd like to go out and be in our company and where loneliness is really not even a word that's in your spiritual vocabulary because you're never alone, that. And all I'm saying as a buffalo is just coming to say hello to me.
That.
That all a lot of many other things will fall in place about what is not just what is my work, who is my maid or my buddy, but the most important thing. How do I do life? It's not it's not be rich, be a doctor, be a dentist.
It's what who am I doing that? Am I graceful? Am I. Am I funny? Am I entertained? Am I. Generous in whatever I'm doing?
And get it away from all the public shame. And. And India has been wonderful in that regard. When India has so many problems in its own way that it's. It doesn't have any vanity about problems. That a person with a scar across their face can have trouble in America and worry over it in.
In India, it's usually that's just. Dileep.
And and he's got a scar on his face and that's it, that's all there is. So all I'll wish anybody well. Go look at our Web site at Animal Aid Unlimited. And better yet, in Udaipur, Rajasthan, India. The door is open for anyone to come and be a part of the animal aid experience.
That's a wonderful. I even get some to use. No forreal like.
But it's it's it's OK. You only know when something special is there, when you know. There's so many places where this is not you're not there. I had I was working so many places where it was. People were treated so, so badly. Like, really, they worked their asses off for this company. And they were just, you know, dumped, basically.
And we don't we learned, by contrast. You're right. You know, you that we spoke to also said that early on we almost don't know anything except by contrast, and that.
And that's where experience becomes so important that. We learned, like you say, by saying that there was trouble until I was in a privileged community, Palos Verdes Estates could just tell you that I was. I didn't even meet a Jewish person. There were no black people and there was no sense of who's gay or not. Everything was in the closet and in the late 40s and 50s in America. So it just look like nobody basically had problems. And as I went out in the world, I thought, oh, wait a second. A lot of the world is in trouble. And I was just in a little kind of nice bubble in the place I was then and then and it turned.
And then you find out if you're if you're lucky, you'll find out. That you are actually. Didn't know until you saw that with all that trouble is actually more the world is more interesting than the world that you were in without trouble, that you you were living with a kind of boredom, that everything came and it was easy. You weren't challenged and you were you and you. When you go out into the real difficulties, then you're called on things in you that you never were called on and in trouble. You find yourself out when you meet the stranger and you're not spooked and you're not you're not afraid and.
And so, yeah, it it it is a very important process that is spiritual in nature. It gets right down to, you know, what is what is good and evil. And we even. Don't even know what those things mean until we'd been ashamed of ourselves. Then we find out not that someone said, oh, that's naughty, but that you feel badly. Maybe you were playing around with some salt with a snail when you were young and you killed it by putting salt in it. Did or did something to a bird or a dog or whatever, or you or you punch someone in the school just as you could because they were a little fat boy and and and weak.
And you took advantage of someone in some place. And you you learned who you were when you became a shamed. And hopefully rose higher than that.
And and it's and you know that we're we're all a work in progress and we're not stuck within a name, you know, that we're good or bad are relative terms that that are always evolving. And every I think the great day is the day that is viewed as your your spiritual life, that you get up in the morning and you want to get up and you're there and you'll live your day. And when you like, pull the switch on the light as you go to sleep. Your life is over. You're finished. You're you're that's that's a life. It's the. It's your existence and you're going to become unconscious again and you're going to wake up in the morning and and it's all going to be new to you and your response to it. It is not the same world. It's the you can never put your foot in the same river twice, as Heraclitus said. You know, it's always changing and moving. And if we don't bring it down to the preciousness that it is. In its moments and the responsibilities to those moments, the things that are needed, because it turns out maybe the next day when you wake up, there's still an injured dog. You're still you're still in the midst of an argument with a friend, you know, and there's Kerry over and you regroup with yourself and and you do another day and try to be better in that day and and not gets as tangled up in.
What what?
Pension fund. Do I need to give me the best interest? So in 30 years from now, I can have a safe landing in some place. And you'll think about the future. Yes. But if all of your thoughts are about getting ready for a certain kind of future, you'll you'll end up never being in the day you're in. You'll be always planning for your vacation, planning for retirement, planning for something. And you'll hardly do the thing. And you're often planning for the next thing instead of with friends, with people you like and ultimately with yourself, that when if you walk down this street by yourself at night. And you're just going to your car, being with yourself in that time and and not about.
Where am I headed? What what is a bummer?
What is good, what is bad? That chatter about with your ego. It just goes on and gone, but just subtle and just way up in yourself that the difficulties that are within you and then give time for that at least give time for. For what? You really navigate with what you we all need to kind of fix our directions in what stars we're following and then prepare for it.
So anyway, yes.
Thank you so much. Thank you for sharing. Thank you for creating this beautiful place. Thank you for. For making this this much work on yourself and realizing this things. I feel like every human beingness that is working on himself or herself is doing a favor for the whole world. And so thank you very much for that.
Yeah, I'm so glad to be here. Thank you.
Yeah, to miss a very special guy. When I first met him. He was picking up. CAAAPU basically.
And only after a while I realized that there was the one of the founders of this place. Because he just looked like a normal volunteer.
And I guess that's.
What intrigued me there was the point where I thought this is a very special man. And after this interview, I now realize.
That it's not really about. The thing that he created. It's not about. The animal shelter that makes him special. It's. The way he thinks and it's. The way that he. Sees life basically because. As he said, he.
He thinks that it's.
It has a high value when you. Live a day in your fulfilled in this day where you're not striving for a next goal tomorrow, but you're. Yeah, you completing a life within day? And that's at such an amazing. Way of living because then you're basically forced to be in the present. And that was, as we all know. The present is. It's the thing where. Where we live and the only thing that really exists and when we think about future in the past, we have very yeah, we are afraid and we're neurotic maybe sometimes and just feel unhappy. And I guess that's why he had such a life. That's why it took so many challenges and created this. This place in the end. And yeah, just did what he thought was necessary to do without thinking about what others might think or. What others belief?
And another thing that I realized. Within this conversation was that. It doesn't matter how you create this place. What intentions you have and how idealistic your ideas are. It's all about who you are and who the people are that are holding this place. That's the most important thing. And everything else will come from this. And then something like Animal Aid it will become possible.
It doesn't matter how you create this place. What intentions you have and how idealistic your ideas are. It's all about who you are and who the people are that are holding this place. That's the most important thing. And everything else will come from this. And then something like Animal Aid it will become possible.